--- PAGE 1 ---
Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer Give form to the
(Rev. March 2024) Identification Number and Certificationrequester. Do not
Department of the TreasuryInternal Revenue Service Go to www.irs.gov/FormW9 for instructions and the latest information. send to the IRS.
Before you begin. For guidance related to the purpose of Form W-9, see Purpose of Form, below.
1 Name of entity/individual. An entry is required. (For a sole proprietor or disregarded entity, enter the owner’s name on line 1, and enter the business/disregardedentity’s name on line 2.)
2 Business name/disregarded entity name, if different from above. [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_01[0]]] [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_02[0]]]
3a Check the appropriate box for federal tax classification of the entity/individual whose name is entered on line 1. Checkonly one of the following seven boxes. 4 Exemptions (codes apply only tocertain entities, not individuals;
{{topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].c1_1[0]}} Individual/sole proprietor {{topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].c1_1[1]}} C corporation {{topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].c1_1[2]}} S corporation {{topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].c1_1[3]}} Partnership {{topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].c1_1[4]}} Trust/estate see instructions on page 3):
on page 3. {{topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].c1_1[5]}} LLC. Enter the tax classification (C = C corporation, S = S corporation, P = Partnership) . . . . [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].f1_03[0]]] Exempt payee code (if any) [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_05[0]]]
Note:classification of the LLC, unless it is a disregarded entity. A disregarded entity should instead check the appropriate Check the “LLC” box above and, in the entry space, enter the appropriate code (C, S, or P) for the taxExemption from Foreign Account Tax
box for the tax classification of its owner. Compliance Act (FATCA) reportingcode (if any)
Print or type. {{topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].c1_1[6]}} Other (see instructions) [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].f1_04[0]]] [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_06[0]]]
3b If on line 3a you checked “Partnership” or “Trust/estate,” or checked “LLC” and entered “P” as its tax classification,and you are providing this form to a partnership, trust, or estate in which you have an ownership interest, check(Applies to accounts maintained
Specific Instructions this box if you have any foreign partners, owners, or beneficiaries. See instructions . . . . . . . . . {{topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Boxes3a-b_ReadOrder[0].c1_2[0]}} outside the United States.)
See 5 Address (number, street, and apt. or suite no.). See instructions. [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Address_ReadOrder[0].f1_07[0]]] Requester’s name and address (optional)
6 City, state, and ZIP code [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].Address_ReadOrder[0].f1_08[0]]] [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_09[0]]]
7 List account number(s) here (optional) [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_10[0]]]
Part I Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) Social security number
Enter your TIN in the appropriate box. The TIN provided must match the name given on line 1 to avoidbackup withholding. For individuals, this is generally your social security number (SSN). However, for a
resident alien, sole proprietor, or disregarded entity, see the instructions for Part I, later. For other [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_11[0]]] – [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_12[0]]] – [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_13[0]]]
entities, it is your employer identification number (EIN). If you do not have a number, seeTIN, later. How to get a or
Employer identification number
Note:Number To Give the Requester If the account is in more than one name, see the instructions for line 1. See also for guidelines on whose number to enter. What Name and [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_14[0]]] – [[topmostSubform[0].Page1[0].f1_15[0]]]
Part II Certification
Under penalties of perjury, I certify that:
1. The number shown on this form is my correct taxpayer identification number (or I am waiting for a number to be issued to me); and
2. I am not subject to backup withholding because (a) I am exempt from backup withholding, or (b) I have not been notified by the Internal RevenueService (IRS) that I am subject to backup withholding as a result of a failure to report all interest or dividends, or (c) the IRS has notified me that I am
no longer subject to backup withholding; and
3. I am a U.S. citizen or other U.S. person (defined below); and
4. The FATCA code(s) entered on this form (if any) indicating that I am exempt from FATCA reporting is correct.
Certification instructions.because you have failed to report all interest and dividends on your tax return. For real estate transactions, item 2 does not apply. You must cross out item 2 above if you have been notified by the IRS that you are currently subject to backup For mortgage interest paid, withholding
acquisition or abandonment of secured property, cancellation of debt, contributions to an individual retirementother than interest and dividends, you are not required to sign the certification, but you must provide your correct TIN. See the instructions for Part II, later. arrangement (IRA), and, generally, payments
Sign Signature ofU.S. person Date
Here
General Instructions required to complete this line to indicate that it has direct or indirectNew line 3b has been added to this form. A flow-through entity is
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless otherwisenoted. foreign partners, owners, or beneficiaries when it provides the Form W-9to another flow-through entity in which it has an ownership interest. This
Future developments. For the latest information about developmentschange is intended to provide a flow-through entity with informationregarding the status of its indirect foreign partners, owners, or
related to Form W-9 and its instructions, such as legislation enactedafter they were published, go to www.irs.gov/FormW9. beneficiaries, so that it can satisfy any applicable reporting
requirements. For example, a partnership that has any indirect foreignpartners may be required to complete Schedules K-2 and K-3. See the
What’s New Partnership Instructions for Schedules K-2 and K-3 (Form 1065).
Line 3a has been modified to clarify how a disregarded entity completesthis line. An LLC that is a disregarded entity should check the
appropriate box for the tax classification of its owner. Otherwise, itPurpose of Form
should check the “LLC” box and enter its appropriate tax classification.An individual or entity (Form W-9 requester) who is required to file aninformation return with the IRS is giving you this form because they
Cat. No. 10231X Form W-9 (Rev. 3-2024)

--- PAGE 2 ---
Form W-9 (Rev. 3-2024) Page 2
must obtain your correct taxpayer identification number (TIN), whichmay be your social security number (SSN), individual taxpayerForeign person.foreign bank that has elected to be treated as a U.S. person (under If you are a foreign person or the U.S. branch of a
identification number (ITIN), adoption taxpayer identification number(ATIN), or employer identification number (EIN), to report on anRegulations section 1.1441-1(b)(2)(iv) or other applicable section forchapter 3 or 4 purposes), do not use Form W-9. Instead, use the
information return the amount paid to you, or other amount reportableon an information return. Examples of information returns include, butappropriate Form W-8 or Form 8233 (see Pub.qualified foreign pension fund under Regulations section 1.897(l)-1(d), or 515). If you are a
are not limited to, the following. a partnership that is wholly owned by qualified foreign pension funds,that is treated as a non-foreign person for purposes of section 1445
• Form 1099-INT (interest earned or paid). withholding, do not use Form W-9. Instead, use Form W-8EXP (or other
• Form 1099-DIV (dividends, including those from stocks or mutualfunds). certification of non-foreign status).
• Form 1099-MISC (various types of income, prizes, awards, or grossNonresident alien who becomes a resident alien.nonresident alien individual may use the terms of a tax Generally, treaty to reduce only a
proceeds). or eliminate U.S. tax on certain types of income. However, most tax
• Form 1099-NEC (nonemployee compensation). treaties contain a provision known as aspecified in the saving clause may permit an exemption from tax to saving clause. Exceptions
• Form 1099-B (stock or mutual fund sales and certain othertransactions by brokers). continue for certain types of income even after the payee has otherwise
• Form 1099-S (proceeds from real estate transactions). become a U.S. resident alien for tax purposes.
• Form 1099-K (merchant card and third-party network transactions).contained in the saving clause of a tax treaty to claim an exemptionIf you are a U.S. resident alien who is relying on an exception
• Form 1098 (home mortgage interest), 1098-E (student loan interest),and 1098-T (tuition). from U.S. tax on certain types of income, you must attach a statementto Form W-9 that specifies the following five items.
• Form 1099-C (canceled debt). which you claimed exemption from tax as a nonresident alien.1. The treaty country. Generally, this must be the same treaty under
• Form 1099-A (acquisition or abandonment of secured property).2. The treaty article addressing the income.
alien), to provide your correct TIN.Use Form W-9 only if you are a U.S. person (including a resident3. The article number (or location) in the tax treaty that contains the
Caution: If you don’t return Form W-9 to the requester with a TIN, yousaving clause and its exceptions.
might be subject to backup withholding. Seewithholding, later. What is backup from tax.4. The type and amount of income that qualifies for the exemption
By signing the filled-out form, you: the treaty article.5. Sufficient facts to justify the exemption from tax under the terms of
number to be issued);1. Certify that the TIN you are giving is correct (or you are waiting for aExample. Article 20 of the U.S.-China income tax treaty allows an
2. Certify that you are not subject to backup withholding; orexemption from tax for scholarship income received by astudent temporarily present in the United States. Under U.S. law, this Chinese
payee; and3. Claim exemption from backup withholding if you are a U.S. exemptstudent will become a resident alien for tax purposes if their stay in the
4. Certify to your non-foreign status for purposes of withholding underUnited States exceeds 5first Protocol to the U.S.-China treaty (dated April 30, 1984) allows the calendar years. However, paragraph 2 of the
chapter 3 or 4 of the Code (if applicable); and provisions ofstudent becomes a resident alien of the United States. A Chinese Article 20 to continue to apply even after the Chinese
that you are exempt from the FATCA reporting is correct. See5. Certify that FATCA code(s) entered on this form (if any) indicating What Is student who qualifies for this exception (under paragraph 2 of the first
FATCA Reporting, later, for further information. Protocol) and is relying on this exception to claim anon their scholarship or fellowship income would attach to Form W-9 a exemption from tax
Note:than Form W-9 to If you are a U.S. person and a requester gives you a form other request your TIN, you must use the requester’s form ifstatement that includes the information described above to support that
it is substantially similar to this Form W-9. exemption.
Definition of a U.S. person. For federal tax purposes, you are appropriate completed Form W-8 or Form 8233.If you are a nonresident alien or a foreign entity, give the requester the
considered a U.S. person if you are:
• An individual who is a U.S. citizen or U.S. resident alien;Backup Withholding
• A partnership, corporation, company, or association created ororganized in the United States or under the laws of the United States;What is backup withholding?must under certain conditions withhold and pay to the Persons making certain payments IRS 24% of such to you
• An estate (other than a foreign estate); or payments. This is called “backup withholding.”subject to backup withholding include, but are not limited to, Payments that may be interest,
• A domestic trust (as defined in Regulations section 301.7701-7).tax-exempt interest, dividends, broker and barter exchange
Establishing U.S. status for purposes of chapter 3 and chapter 4withholding. Payments made to foreign persons, including certaintransactions, rents, royalties, nonemployee pay, payments made insettlement of payment card and third-party network transactions, and
distributions, allocations of income, or transfers of sales proceeds, maybe subject to withholding under chapter 3 or chapter 4 of the Codecertain payments from fishing boat operators. Real estateare not subject to backup withholding. transactions
(sections 1441–1474). Under those rules, if a Form W-9 or othercertification of non-foreign status has not been received, a withholdingYou will not be subject to backup withholding on payments you receive
agent, transferee, or partnership (payor) generally applies presumptionif you give the requester your correct TIN, make the proper certifications,and report all your taxable interest and dividends on your tax return.
rules that may require the payor to withhold applicable tax from therecipient, owner, transferor, or partner (payee). See Pub. 515,Payments you receive will be subject to backup withholding if:
Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Entities.1. You do not furnish your TIN to the requester;
purposes of establishing its non-foreign status.The following persons must provide Form W-9 to the payor forPart II for details);2. You do not certify your TIN when required (see the instructions for
• In the case of a disregarded entity with a U.S. owner, the U.S. ownerof the disregarded entity and not the disregarded entity. 3. The IRS tells the requester that you furnished an incorrect TIN;
• In the case of a grantor trust with a U.S. grantor or other U.S. owner,because you did not report all your interest and dividends on your tax4. The IRS tells you that you are subject to backup withholding
generally, the U.S. grantor or other U.S. owner of the grantor trust andnot the grantor trust. return (for reportable interest and dividends only); or
• In the case of a U.S. trust (other than a grantor trust), the U.S. trustbackup withholding, as described in item 4 under “5. You do not certify to the requester that you are not subject toBy signing the filled-
and not the beneficiaries of the trust. out formafter 1983 only).” above (for reportable interest and dividend accounts opened
See Pub. 515 for more information on providing a Form W-9 or acertification of non-foreign status to avoid withholding.

--- PAGE 3 ---
Form W-9 (Rev. 3-2024) Page 3
SeeCertain payees and payments are exempt from backup withholding. Exempt payee code, later, and the separate Instructions for theexample, if a foreign LLC that is treated as a disregarded entity for U.S.federal tax purposes has a single owner that is a U.S. person, the U.S.
Requester of Form W-9 for more information. owner’s name is required to be provided on line 1. If the direct owner ofthe entity is also a disregarded entity, enter the first owner that is not
chapter 4 withholdingSee also Establishing U.S. status for purposes of chapter 3 and, earlier. disregarded for federal tax purposes. Enter the disregarded entity’s
name on line 2. If the owner of the disregarded entity is a foreign person,the owner must complete an appropriate Form W-8 instead of a Form
What Is FATCA Reporting? W-9. This is the case even if the foreign person has a U.S. TIN.
The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) requires aparticipating foreign financial institution to report all U.S. accountLine 2
holders that are specified U.S. persons. Certain payees are exempt fromFATCA reporting. See Exemption from FATCA reporting code, later, and If you have a business name, trade name, DBA name, or disregarded
the Instructions for the Requester of Form W-9 for more information.entity name, enter it on line 2.
Line 3a
Updating Your Information Check the appropriate box on line 3a for the U.S. federal tax
You must provide updated information to any person to whom youclassification of the person whose name is entered on line 1. Check onlyone box on line 3a.
claimed to be an exempt payee if you are no longer an exempt payeeand anticipate receiving reportable payments in the future from this
person. For example, you may need to provide updated information ifIF the entity/individual on line 1is a(n) . . . THEN check the box for . . .
you are a C corporation that elects to be an S corporation, or if you areno longer tax exempt. In addition, you must furnish a new Form W-9 if
the name or TIN changes for the account, for example, if the grantor of a• Corporation Corporation.
grantor trust dies. • Individual or Individual/sole proprietor.
• Sole proprietorship
Penalties • LLC classified as a partnershipLimited liability company and
Failure to furnish TIN. If you fail to furnish your correct TIN to afor U.S. federal tax purposes orenter the appropriate taxclassification:
requester, you are subject to a penalty of $50 for each suchunless your failure is due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. failure • LLC that has filed Form 8832 or2553 electing to be taxed as aP = Partnership,
Civil penalty for false information with respect to withholding. If you corporation C = C corporation, orS = S corporation.
make a false statement with no reasonablebackup withholding, you are subject to a $500 penalty. basis that results in no • Partnership Partnership.
Criminal penalty for falsifying information.certifications or affirmations may subject you to criminal Willfully falsifying penalties • Trust/estate Trust/estate.
including fines and/or imprisonment. Line 3b
Misuse of TINs.federal law, the requester may be subject to civil and If the requester discloses or uses TINs in criminal penalties. violation of Check this box if you are a partnership (including an LLC classified as apartnership for U.S. federal tax purposes), trust, or estate that has any
foreign partners, owners, or beneficiaries, and you are providing thisform to a partnership, trust, or estate, in which you have an ownership
Specific Instructions interest. You must check the box on line 3b if you receive a Form W-8
Line 1 (or documentary evidence) from any partner, owner, or beneficiaryestablishing foreign status or if you receive a Form W-9 from any
You must enter one of the following on this line;blank. The name should match the name on your tax return. do not leave this line partner, owner, or beneficiary that has checked the box on line 3b.
If this Form W-9 is for a joint account (other than an accountNote:be required to complete Schedules K-2 and K-3 (Form 1065). For more A partnership that provides a Form W-9 and checks box 3b may
maintained by a foreign financial institution (FFI)), list first, and thencircle, the name of the person or entity whose number you entered ininformation, see the Partnership Instructions for Schedules K-2 and K-3
Part I of Form W-9. If you are providing Form W-9 to an FFI to document(Form 1065).
a joint account, each holder of the account that is a U.S. person mustreceive the information necessary to file a correct information return withIf you are required to complete line 3b but fail to do so, you may not
provide a Form W-9. the IRS or furnish a correct payee statement to your partners or
•have changed your last name without informing the Social Security Individual. Generally, enter the name shown on your tax return. If youbeneficiaries. See, for example, sections 6698, 6722, and 6724 for
Administration (SSA) of the name change, enter your first name, the lastpenalties that may apply.
name as shown on your social security card, and your new last name.Line 4 Exemptions
Note for ITIN applicant:on your Form W-7 application, line 1a. This should also be the same as Enter your individual name as it was enteredIf you are exempt from backup withholding and/or FATCA reporting,
the name you entered on the Form 1040 you filed with your application.enter in the appropriate space on line 4 any code(s) that may apply toyou.
•1040 on line 1. Enter your Sole proprietor. Enter your individual name as shown on your Form business, trade, or “doing business as” (DBA)Exempt payee code.
name on line 2. • Generally, individuals (including sole proprietors) are not exempt frombackup withholding.
•disregarded entity. Partnership, C corporation, S corporation, or LLC, other than a Enter the entity’s name as shown on the entity’s tax• Except as provided below, corporations are exempt from backup
return on line 1 and any business, trade, or DBA name on line 2.withholding for certain payments, including interest and dividends.
• Other entities. Enter your name as shown on required U.S. federal tax• Corporations are not exempt from backup withholding for paymentsmade in settlement of payment card or third-party network transactions.
documents on line 1. This name should match the name shown on thecharter or other legal document creating the entity. Enter any business,• Corporations are not exempt from backup withholding with respect to
trade, or DBA name on line 2. attorneys’ fees or gross proceeds paid to attorneys, and corporationsthat provide medical or health care services are not exempt with respect
•owner, including an LLC, and is not a corporation, is disregarded as an Disregarded entity. In general, a business entity that has a singleto payments reportable on Form 1099-MISC.
entity separate from its owner (a disregarded entity). See Regulationswithholding. Enter the appropriate code in the space on line 4.The following codes identify payees that are exempt from backup
section 301.7701-2(c)(2). A disregarded entity should check theappropriate box for the tax classification of its owner. Enter the owner’s
name on line 1. The name of the owner entered on line 1 should nevera custodial account under section 403(b)(7) if the account satisfies the1—An organization exempt from tax under section 501(a), any IRA, or
be a disregarded entity. The name on line 1 should be the name shownon the income tax return on which the income should be reported. Forrequirements of section 401(f)(2).

--- PAGE 4 ---
Form W-9 (Rev. 3-2024) Page 4
2—The United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities.instruments (including notional principal contracts, futures, forwards,F—A dealer in securities, commodities, or derivative financial
or any of their political subdivisions or instrumentalities.3—A state, the District of Columbia, a U.S. commonwealth or territory,and options) that is registered as such under the laws of the United
4—A foreign government or any of its political subdivisions, agencies,States or any state.
or instrumentalities. G—A real estate investment trust.
5—A corporation. entity registered at all times during the tax year under the InvestmentH—A regulated investment company as defined in section 851 or an
United States, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. commonwealth or6—A dealer in securities or commodities required to register in theCompany Act of 1940.
territory. I—A common trust fund as defined in section 584(a).
7—A futures commission merchant registered with the CommodityJ—A bank as defined in section 581.
Futures Trading Commission. K—A broker.
8—A real estate investment trust. 4947(a)(1).L—A trust exempt from tax under section 664 or described in section
Investment Company Act of 1940.9—An entity registered at all times during the tax year under theM—A tax-exempt trust under a section 403(b) plan or section 457(g)
10—A common trust fund operated by a bank under section 584(a).plan.
11—A financial institution as defined under section 581. Note:this form to determine whether the FATCA code and/or exempt payee You may wish to consult with the financial institution requesting
12—A middleman known in the investment community as a nominee orcustodian. code should be completed.
13—A trust exempt from tax under section 664 or described in sectionLine 5
4947. Enter your address (number, street, and apartment or suite number).
The following chart shows types of payments that may be exemptThis is where the requester of this Form W-9 will mail your informationreturns. If this address differs from the one the requester already has on
from backup withholding. The chart applies to the exempt payees listedabove, 1 through 13. file, enter “NEW” at the top. If a new address is provided, there is still a
IF the payment is for . . . THEN the payment is exempt chance the old address will be used until the payor changes youraddress in their records.
for . . . Line 6
• Interest and dividend payments All exempt payees exceptfor 7. Enter your city, state, and ZIP code.
• Broker transactions Exempt payees 1 through 4 and 6through 11 and all C corporations.Part I. Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)
S corporations must not enter anEnter your TIN in the appropriate box.you do not have, and are not eligible to get, an SSN, If you are a resident your TIN is your alien and
exempt payee code because theyare exempt only for sales of IRS ITIN. Enter it in the entry space for the Social security number. If you
noncovered securities acquired do not have an ITIN, see How to get a TIN below.
prior to 2012. If you are a sole proprietor and you have an EIN, you may enter either
• Barter exchange transactionsand patronage dividends Exempt payees 1 through 4. your SSN or EIN.
• Payments over $600 required toGenerally, exempt payees separate from its owner, enter the owner’s SSN (or EIN, if the owner hasIf you are a single-member LLC that is disregarded as an entity
be reported and direct sales over1 1 through 5.2 one). If the LLC is classified as a corporation or partnership, enter the
$5,000 entity’s EIN.
• Payments made in settlement ofExempt payees 1 through 4. Note:further clarification of name See What Name and Number To Give the Requester and TIN combinations. , later, for
payment card or third-partynetwork transactions How to get a TIN. If you do not have a TIN, apply for one immediately.
1 See Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Information, and its instructions.To apply for an SSN, get Form SS-5, ApplicationCard, from your local SSA office or get this form online at for a Social Security
2 However, the following payments made to a corporation and www.SSA.gov. You may also get this form by calling 800-772-1213. Use
reportable on Form 1099-MISC are not exempt from backupwithholding: medical and health care payments, attorneys’ fees, grossForm W-7, Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification
proceeds paid to an attorney reportable under section 6045(f), andNumber, to apply for an ITIN, or Form SS-4, Application forIdentification Number, to apply for an EIN. You can apply for an EIN Employer
payments for services paid by a federal executive agency. online by accessing the IRS website at www.irs.gov/EIN. Go to
Exemption from FATCA reporting code. The following codes identifywww.irs.gov/FormsSS-4. Or, you can go to to view, download, or print Form W-7 and/or Form www.irs.gov/OrderForms to place an order and
payees that are exempt from reporting under FATCA. These codesapply to persons submitting this form for accounts maintained outsidehave Form W-7 and/or Form SS-4 mailed to you within 15 business
of the United States by certain foreign financial institutions. Therefore, ifdays.
you are only submitting this form for an account you hold in the UnitedStates, you may leave this field blank. Consult with the personIf you are asked to complete Form W-9 but do not have a TIN, apply
requesting this form if you are uncertain if the financial institution isfor a TIN and enter “Applied For” in the space for the TIN, sign and datethe form, and give it to the requester. For interest and dividend
subject to these requirements. A requester may indicate that a code isnot required by providing you with a Form W-9 with “Not Applicable” (orpayments, and certain payments made with respect to readily tradable
any similar indication) entered on the line for a FATCA exemption code.instruments, you will generally have 60 days to get a TIN and give it tothe requester before you are subject to backup withholding on
A—An organization exempt from tax under section 501(a) or anypayments. The 60-day rule does not apply to other types of payments.You will be subject to backup withholding on all such payments until
individual retirement plan as defined in section 7701(a)(37).you provide your TIN to the requester.
B—The United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities.Note: Entering “Applied For” means that you have already applied for a
territory, or any of their political subdivisions or instrumentalities.C—A state, the District of Columbia, a U.S. commonwealth orTIN or that you intend to apply for one soon. See also Establishing U.S.
D—A corporation the stock of which is regularly traded on one orstatus for purposes of chapter 3 and chapter 4 withholdingwhen you may instead be subject to withholding under chapter 3 or 4 of, earlier, for
more established securities markets, as described in Regulationssection 1.1472-1(c)(1)(i). the Code.
E—A corporation that is a member of the same expanded affiliatedCaution:the appropriate Form W-8. A disregarded U.S. entity that has a foreign owner must use
group as a corporation described in Regulations section 1.1472-1(c)(1)(i).

--- PAGE 5 ---
Form W-9 (Rev. 3-2024) Page 5
Part II. Certification For this type of account: Give name and EIN of:
To establish to the withholding agent that you are a U.S. person, or8. Disregarded entity not owned by anindividual The owner
resident alien, sign Form W-9. You may be requested to sign by thewithholding agent even if item 1, 4, or 5 below indicates otherwise.9. A valid trust, estate, or pension trust Legal entity4
should sign (when required). In the case of a disregarded entity, theFor a joint account, only the person whose TIN is shown in Part I10. Corporation or LLC electing corporatestatus on Form 8832 or Form 2553The corporation
person identified on line 1 must sign. Exempt payees, seecode, earlier. Exempt payee 11. Association, club, religious, charitable,educational, or other tax-exemptThe organization
Signature requirements. Complete the certification as indicated in organization
items 1 through 5 below. 12. Partnership or multi-member LLC The partnership
1. Interest, dividend, and barter exchange accounts opened13. A broker or registered nominee The broker or nominee
before 1984 and broker accounts considered active during 1983.You must give your correct TIN, but you do not have to sign the 14. Account with the Department ofAgriculture in the name of a publicThe public entity
certification. entity (such as a state or localgovernment, school district, or prison)
opened after 1983 and broker accounts considered inactive during2. Interest, dividend, broker, and barter exchange accounts that receives agricultural program
1983. You must sign the certification or backup withholding will apply. Ifpayments
you are subject to backup withholding and you are merely providing 15. Grantor trust filing Form 1041 orunder the Optional Filing Method 2,The trust
your correct TIN to the requester,certification before signing the form. you must cross out item 2 in the requiring Form 1099 (see Regulations
section 1.671-4(b)(2)(i)(B))**
cross out item 2 of the certification.3. Real estate transactions. You must sign the certification. You may 1 List first and circle the name of the person whose number you furnish.
4. Other payments. You must give your correct TIN, but you do not If only one person on a joint account has an SSN, that person’s numbermust be furnished.
have to sign the certification unless you have beenhave previously given an incorrect TIN. “Other payments” include notified that you 2 Circle the minor’s name and furnish the minor’s SSN.
payments made in the course of the requester’s trade or business for3 You must show your individual name on line 1, and enter your business
rents, royalties, goods (otherhealth care services (including payments to corporations), payments to than bills for merchandise), medical andor DBA name, if any, on line 2. You may use either your SSN or EIN (ifyou have one), but the IRS encourages you to use your SSN.
acard and third-party network transactions, payments to certain fishing nonemployee for services, payments made in settlement of payment4 List first and circle the name of the trust, estate, or pension trust. (Do
boat crew members and fishermen, and gross proceeds paid to not furnish the TIN of the personal representative or trustee unless thelegal entity itself is not designated in the account title.)
attorneys (including payments to corporations). * Note: The grantor must also provide a Form W-9 to the trustee of the
secured property, cancellation of debt, qualified tuition program5. Mortgage interest paid by you, acquisition or abandonment oftrust.
payments (under section 529), ABLE accounts (under section 529A),the Instructions for Form 1041.** For more information on optional filing methods for grantor trusts, see
IRA, Coverdell ESA, Archer MSA or HSA contributions ordistributions, and pension distributions. You must give your correct Note: If no name is circled when more than one name is listed, the
TIN, but you do not have to sign the certification. number will be considered to be that of the first name listed.
What Name and Number To Give the RequesterSecure Your Tax Records From Identity Theft
For this type of account: Give name and SSN of: Identity theft occurs when someone uses your personal information,such as your name, SSN, or other identifying information, without your
1. Individual The individual permission to commit fraud or other crimes. An identity thief may use
2. Two or more individuals (joint account)other than an account maintained byThe actual owner of the account or,if combined funds, the first individualyour SSN to get a job or may file a tax return using your SSN to receive
an FFI on the account1 a refund.
3. Two or more U.S. persons Each holder of the account To reduce your risk:
(joint account maintained by an FFI) 2 • Protect your SSN,
4. Custodial account of a minor(Uniform Gift to Minors Act) The minor • Ensure your employer is protecting your SSN, and
5. a. The usual revocable savings trustThe grantor-trustee1 • Be careful when choosing a tax return preparer.
(grantor is also trustee) 1 notice from the IRS, respond right away to the name and phone numberIf your tax records are affected by identity theft and you receive a
b. So-called trust account that is nota legal or valid trust under state lawThe actual owner printed on the IRS notice or letter.
6. Sole proprietorship or disregardedThe owner 3 think you are at risk due to a lost or stolen purse or wallet, questionableIf your tax records are not currently affected by identity theft but you
entity owned by an individual credit card activity, or a questionable credit report, contact the IRS
7. Grantor trust filing under OptionalFiling Method 1 (see RegulationsThe grantor* Identity Theft Hotline at 800-908-4490 or submit Form 14039.
section 1.671-4(b)(2)(i)(A))** Taxpayers.For more information, see Pub. 5027, Identity Theft Information for

--- PAGE 6 ---
Form W-9 (Rev. 3-2024) Page 6
systemic problem, or are seeking help in resolving tax problems thatVictims of identity theft who are experiencing economic harm or aPrivacy Act Notice
have not been resolved through normal channels, may be eligible forSection 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code requires you to provide yourcorrect TIN to persons (including federal agencies) who are required to
Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) assistance. You can reach TAS bycalling the TAS toll-free case intake line at 877-777-4778 or TTY/TDDfile information returns with the IRS to report interest, dividends, or
800-829-4059. certain other income paid to you; mortgage interest you paid; theacquisition or abandonment of secured property; the cancellation of
Protect yourself from suspicious emails or phishing schemes.Phishing is the creation and use of email and websites designed to debt; or contributions you made to an IRA, Archer MSA, or HSA. The
mimic legitimate business emails and websites. The most common act person collecting this form uses the information on the form to fileinformation returns with the IRS, reporting the above information.
is sending an email to a userlegitimate enterprise in an attempt to scam the user into surrendering falsely claiming to be an establishedRoutine uses of this information include giving it to the Department of
private information that will be used for identity theft. Justice for civil and criminal litigation and to cities, states, the District ofColumbia, and U.S. commonwealths and territories for use in
IRS does not request personal detailed information through email or askThe IRS does not initiate contacts with taxpayers via emails. Also, theadministering their laws. The information may also be disclosed to other
taxpayers for the PIN numbers, passwords, or similar secret accesscountries under a treaty, to federal and state agencies to enforce civiland criminal laws, or to federal law enforcement and intelligence
information for their credit card, bank, or other financial accounts.agencies to combat terrorism. You must provide your TIN whether or not
If you receive an unsolicited email claiming to be from the IRS,you are required to file a tax return. Under section 3406, payors mustgenerally withhold a percentage of taxable interest, dividends, and
forward this message toof the IRS name, logo, or other IRS property to the Treasury Inspector phishing@irs.gov. You may also report misusecertain other payments to a payee who does not give a TIN to the payor.
General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) at 800-366-4484. You canCertain penalties may also apply for providing false or fraudulentinformation.
forward suspicious emails to the Federal Trade Commission atspam@uce.gov or report them at www.ftc.gov/complaint. You can
contact the FTC atIf you have been the victim of identity theft, see www.ftc.gov/idtheft or 877-IDTHEFT (877-438-4338). www.IdentityTheft.gov
and Pub. 5027.
how to reduce your risk.Go to www.irs.gov/IdentityTheft to learn more about identity theft and